clients/messagedb-go/TESTING.md, before:

# MessageDB Go SDK - Test Coverage

## Test Summary

Total tests: **61**

All tests passing ✅

## Test Coverage by Category

### WRITE Tests (9 tests)
- ✅ WRITE-001: Write minimal message
- ✅ WRITE-002: Write message with metadata
- ✅ WRITE-003: Write with custom message ID
- ✅ WRITE-004: Write with expected version (success)
- ✅ WRITE-005: Write with expected version (conflict)
- ✅ WRITE-006: Write multiple messages sequentially
- ✅ WRITE-007: Write to stream with ID
- ✅ WRITE-008: Write with empty data object
- ✅ WRITE-009: Write with null metadata

### READ Tests (10 tests)
- ✅ READ-001: Read from empty stream
- ✅ READ-002: Read single message
- ✅ READ-003: Read multiple messages
- ✅ READ-004: Read with position filter
- ✅ READ-005: Read with global position filter
- ✅ READ-006: Read with batch size limit
- ✅ READ-007: Read with batch size unlimited
- ✅ READ-008: Read message data integrity
- ✅ READ-009: Read message metadata integrity
- ✅ READ-010: Read message timestamp format

### LAST Tests (4 tests)
- ✅ LAST-001: Last message from non-empty stream
- ✅ LAST-002: Last message from empty stream
- ✅ LAST-003: Last message filtered by type
- ✅ LAST-004: Last message type filter no match

### VERSION Tests (3 tests)
- ✅ VERSION-001: Version of non-existent stream
- ✅ VERSION-002: Version of stream with messages
- ✅ VERSION-003: Version after write

### CATEGORY Tests (8 tests)
- ✅ CATEGORY-001: Read from category
- ✅ CATEGORY-002: Read category with position filter
- ✅ CATEGORY-003: Read category with batch size
- ✅ CATEGORY-004: Category message format
- ✅ CATEGORY-005: Category with consumer group
- ✅ CATEGORY-006: Category with correlation filter
- ✅ CATEGORY-007: Read from empty category
- ✅ CATEGORY-008: Category global position ordering

### NAMESPACE Tests (8 tests)
- ✅ NS-001: Create namespace
- ✅ NS-002: Create namespace with custom token
- ✅ NS-003: Create duplicate namespace
- ✅ NS-004: Delete namespace
- ✅ NS-005: Delete non-existent namespace
- ✅ NS-006: List namespaces
- ✅ NS-007: Get namespace info
- ✅ NS-008: Get info for non-existent namespace

### SYSTEM Tests (2 tests)
- ✅ SYS-001: Get server version
- ✅ SYS-002: Get server health

### AUTH Tests (4 tests)
- ✅ AUTH-001: Valid token authentication
- ✅ AUTH-002: Missing token
- ✅ AUTH-003: Invalid token format
- ✅ AUTH-004: Token namespace isolation

### ERROR Tests (3 tests)
- ✅ ERROR-001: Invalid RPC method
- ✅ ERROR-004: Connection refused
- ✅ ERROR-006: Network timeout

### ENCODING Tests (10 tests)
- ✅ ENCODING-001: UTF-8 text in data
- ✅ ENCODING-002: Unicode in metadata
- ✅ ENCODING-003: Special characters in stream name
- ✅ ENCODING-004: Empty string values
- ✅ ENCODING-005: Boolean values
- ✅ ENCODING-006: Null values
- ✅ ENCODING-007: Numeric values
- ✅ ENCODING-008: Nested objects
- ✅ ENCODING-009: Arrays in data
- ✅ ENCODING-010: Large message payload

## Running Tests

### Quick Test
```bash
cd clients/messagedb-go
MESSAGEDB_URL=http://localhost:8080 MESSAGEDB_ADMIN_TOKEN=ns_... go test -v
```

### With Race Detector
```bash
go test -v -race
```

### Using Test Runner
```bash
./bin/run_sdk_tests.sh golang
```

## Test Infrastructure

- **Test Isolation**: Each test creates its own namespace for complete isolation
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Namespaces are automatically deleted after tests complete
- **No External Dependencies**: Uses only Go standard library
- **Concurrent Safe**: All tests pass with race detector enabled

## Coverage Status

✅ **Tier 1 (Must Have)**: 100% - All WRITE, READ, AUTH, ERROR tests passing

✅ **Tier 2 (Should Have)**: 100% - All CATEGORY, NS, SYS, LAST, VERSION tests passing

✅ **Tier 3 (Nice to Have)**: 100% - All ENCODING tests passing

## Notes

- Global position filtering behavior may vary in namespace-isolated environments
- Some server configurations allow unauthenticated access in test/dev mode
- Namespace message counts may be eventually consistent

Commit message:

Feat: add SSE tests + handling for golang SDK

clients/messagedb-go/TESTING.md, after:

# MessageDB Go SDK - Test Coverage

## Test Summary

Total tests: **71**

All tests passing ✅

## Test Coverage by Category

### WRITE Tests (9 tests)
- ✅ WRITE-001: Write minimal message
- ✅ WRITE-002: Write message with metadata
- ✅ WRITE-003: Write with custom message ID
- ✅ WRITE-004: Write with expected version (success)
- ✅ WRITE-005: Write with expected version (conflict)
- ✅ WRITE-006: Write multiple messages sequentially
- ✅ WRITE-007: Write to stream with ID
- ✅ WRITE-008: Write with empty data object
- ✅ WRITE-009: Write with null metadata

### READ Tests (10 tests)
- ✅ READ-001: Read from empty stream
- ✅ READ-002: Read single message
- ✅ READ-003: Read multiple messages
- ✅ READ-004: Read with position filter
- ✅ READ-005: Read with global position filter
- ✅ READ-006: Read with batch size limit
- ✅ READ-007: Read with batch size unlimited
- ✅ READ-008: Read message data integrity
- ✅ READ-009: Read message metadata integrity
- ✅ READ-010: Read message timestamp format

### LAST Tests (4 tests)
- ✅ LAST-001: Last message from non-empty stream
- ✅ LAST-002: Last message from empty stream
- ✅ LAST-003: Last message filtered by type
- ✅ LAST-004: Last message type filter no match

### VERSION Tests (3 tests)
- ✅ VERSION-001: Version of non-existent stream
- ✅ VERSION-002: Version of stream with messages
- ✅ VERSION-003: Version after write

### CATEGORY Tests (8 tests)
- ✅ CATEGORY-001: Read from category
- ✅ CATEGORY-002: Read category with position filter
- ✅ CATEGORY-003: Read category with batch size
- ✅ CATEGORY-004: Category message format
- ✅ CATEGORY-005: Category with consumer group
- ✅ CATEGORY-006: Category with correlation filter
- ✅ CATEGORY-007: Read from empty category
- ✅ CATEGORY-008: Category global position ordering

### NAMESPACE Tests (8 tests)
- ✅ NS-001: Create namespace
- ✅ NS-002: Create namespace with custom token
- ✅ NS-003: Create duplicate namespace
- ✅ NS-004: Delete namespace
- ✅ NS-005: Delete non-existent namespace
- ✅ NS-006: List namespaces
- ✅ NS-007: Get namespace info
- ✅ NS-008: Get info for non-existent namespace

### SYSTEM Tests (2 tests)
- ✅ SYS-001: Get server version
- ✅ SYS-002: Get server health

### AUTH Tests (4 tests)
- ✅ AUTH-001: Valid token authentication
- ✅ AUTH-002: Missing token
- ✅ AUTH-003: Invalid token format
- ✅ AUTH-004: Token namespace isolation

### ERROR Tests (3 tests)
- ✅ ERROR-001: Invalid RPC method
- ✅ ERROR-004: Connection refused
- ✅ ERROR-006: Network timeout

### ENCODING Tests (10 tests)
- ✅ ENCODING-001: UTF-8 text in data
- ✅ ENCODING-002: Unicode in metadata
- ✅ ENCODING-003: Special characters in stream name
- ✅ ENCODING-004: Empty string values
- ✅ ENCODING-005: Boolean values
- ✅ ENCODING-006: Null values
- ✅ ENCODING-007: Numeric values
- ✅ ENCODING-008: Nested objects
- ✅ ENCODING-009: Arrays in data
- ✅ ENCODING-010: Large message payload

### SSE Tests (10 tests)
- ✅ SSE-001: Subscribe to stream
- ✅ SSE-002: Subscribe to category
- ✅ SSE-003: Subscribe with position
- ✅ SSE-004: Subscribe without authentication
- ✅ SSE-005: Subscribe with consumer group
- ✅ SSE-006: Multiple subscriptions
- ✅ SSE-007: Reconnection handling
- ✅ SSE-008: Poke event parsing
- ✅ SSE-009: Multiple consumers in same consumer group
- ✅ SSE-010: Close subscription

## Running Tests

### Quick Test
```bash
cd clients/messagedb-go
MESSAGEDB_URL=http://localhost:8080 MESSAGEDB_ADMIN_TOKEN=ns_... go test -v
```

### With Race Detector
```bash
go test -v -race
```

### Using Test Runner
```bash
./bin/run_sdk_tests.sh golang
```

## Test Infrastructure

- **Test Isolation**: Each test creates its own namespace for complete isolation
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Namespaces are automatically deleted after tests complete
- **No External Dependencies**: Uses only Go standard library
- **Concurrent Safe**: All tests pass with race detector enabled

## Coverage Status

✅ **Tier 1 (Must Have)**: 100% - All WRITE, READ, AUTH, ERROR tests passing

✅ **Tier 2 (Should Have)**: 100% - All CATEGORY, NS, SYS, LAST, VERSION tests passing

✅ **Tier 3 (Nice to Have)**: 100% - All ENCODING and SSE tests passing

## Notes

- Global position filtering behavior may vary in namespace-isolated environments
- Some server configurations allow unauthenticated access in test/dev mode
- Namespace message counts may be eventually consistent
